post: nodejs v18 (#32)
cloudx-labs/posts: posts/navarroaxel/01.nodejs-18.md

---
title: 'Node.js 18: fetch API, Test Runner module, and more'
published: false
description: Node.js v18 was released and we can found a few amazing stuff in this major release.
tags: 'javascript, node, webdev, programming'
cover_image: ./assets/nodejs-18-cover.png
---

> This week Node.js v18 was released and we can found a few amazing stuff in this major release. Let's check the most important ones. 🚀

Reviewer: we can **find**

Author: ```suggestion
This week Node.js v18 was released and we can find new amazing features in this major release. Let's check the most important ones. 🚀
```

> This week Node.js v18 was released and we can found a few amazing stuff in this major release. Let's check the most important ones. 🚀

Author: ```suggestion
This week Node.js v18 was released and we can find new amazing features in this major release. Let's check the most important ones. 🚀
```

    assert.strictEqual(1, 1);
  });

  await t.test('subtest 2', (t) => {
    assert.strictEqual(2, 2);
  });
});
```

Learn more at <https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v18.x/docs/api/test.html>.

## Prefix-only core module

Have you seen this strange import?

```javascript
import test from 'node:test';
```

Since this release all core modules can be imported using the `node:` prefix, there is no difference between importing `fs` and `node:fs`. But the `test` module only can be imported using the prefixed form: `node:test`.

💡 If when loading `node:test` the `node:` prefix is not included, Node.js will attempt to load a module named `test` from the `node_modules` folder.

## The V8 10.1

Node.js v18 comes with V8 engine v10.1 which is part of Chromium v101, in spite of the versions included in Node.js v17 that didn't include these features:

* The [`findLast` and `findLastIndex` array methods](https://v8.dev/features/finding-in-arrays).
* Improvements to the [`Intl.Locale` API](https://v8.dev/blog/v8-release-99#intl.locale-extensions).
* The [`Intl.supportedValuesOf` function](https://v8.dev/blog/v8-release-99#intl.locale-extensions).

## Conclusion

> In this post we've only mentioned the most important changes included in this release. Remember that this version will be promoted to LTS in October of this year.

Reviewer: maybe you can simplify this line to:

> We've only mentioned the most important changes included in this release. This version will be promoted to LTS in October of this year.

Author: ```suggestion
We've only mentioned the most notable changes in this release. Node.js v18 will be promoted to LTS in October of this year.
```
